Hello everyone and welcome to the first onsight question solution for the social network company.
Mock interview for this problem you were given a list of integers and a target number.
Then you were assigned to write a function that returns a boolean indicating if it's possible to sum
two of the integers from that list to reach the target number and you had a requirement here you cannot
use an integer element twice.
You have optimized for time over space.
So for this problem we're actually going to take advantage of a set data structure.
We just took advantage of a set in the last phone screen problem.
We're going to do it again.
Really want to iterate here that the set is a very very useful data structure and sometimes it doesn't
come to mind as much as say a list or strip dictionary.
So sets a really really useful.
And we're going to make use of it again in this particular solution.
What we're going to do is make a single pass through that list of integers and then treat each element
as a first integer and our possible sum then each iteration we're going to check to see if there's a
second integer which will allow us to hit the target number and then we're going to use a set to check
if we've already seen in our list then we're going to update our scene set by adding the current number
in the iteration to it.
So this should be really similar to what we just did as far as using a set as an already seen
holder.
So we're going to do is taking that list.
Ls t and then have our target then we're going to create a variable called scene and have it be an empty
set again.
So this should be really familiar to you from the last problem we just did.
And this is really what a set is super useful for.
If you ever have an interview problem where you're thinking hey how can I keep track of integers or
elements that I've already seen a set should definitely come to mind.
All right so now we want to go throughout the list so say for now analysts are going to find out if
there's a second number that sums up with the number to reach the target.
And in order to do that I just use a simple so traction here I'm going to say number two equals target
minus number then if number two has already been seen I'm going to return true after that if that if
statement doesn't happen I'm going to add that number to scene and then if it never gets hit I'm just
going to return false.
All right.
So let's think about what's actually happening here.
It's pretty simple code.
And the idea should be pretty straightforward.
I have seen variable and it's an empty set and then I'm going along and saying for every number in that
list I want to find a second number which makes me reach that target number.
So I have my targets minus the current number in that list equal to number two.
And if I've already seen that number two if it's already in Seen I'm going to return true.
And then if that doesn't happen if this if statement doesn't become in scene I won't return anything
so I keep going and add that number to seen otherwise.
If I go throughout this entire list and never see it I'm just going to return false.
And so this is why I mentioned we're optimizing for time over space because in space we're actually
keeping track of every number that we've already seen which isn't so great for space efficiency but
as far as time efficiency.
What's nice is that we're only doing one run through this list.
OK.
So that's it for the solution.
Again we're just taking advantage of a set data structure making a single pass through the list of integers
and treating each element as the first integer of our possible sum.
Then each iteration we will check to see if there's a second integer which allows us to hit that target
number which is what this is.
And we're going to use a set to check if we've already seen in our list which is what's happening here
here and then numb to insane.
Then we're going to update our scene set by adding the current number to the iteration which we do here
.
If we don't end up returning true we go throughout the entire list and that number two is never in that
scene set where you can return false.
All right.
That's it again.
Remember to keep that set data structure in the back of your mind especially if you're trying to keep
track of something.
OK.
Thanks everyone and I'll see you at the next solution lecture